#PoemSquare



Translate the poem into a PoemSquare.  A PoemSquare is a multi-media experience you will compose from media files that you or others have created or found and have stored in the Remaking Poetry database.  The PoemSquare synthesizes representations of the poem’s sounds, images, words, and movement in a different art form.  
To begin, reflect on your observations from the experiments and draw some conclusions about what and how the poem means for you.  As you are designing your PoemSquare translation, here are some things to think about:
•	What interests, skills, or experiences of yours might bring an interesting interpretive perspective to your translation?  For example, can you dance the poem or particular lines in it, paint it, mime it, play it on a musical instrument?  How would you convert those innovative expressions of the poem into a digital format?  What electronic devices might you use to do that?  Or what media files that you have located might you use in your translation?

•	What phases or movements does the original poem seem to go through?  How will your translation reflect those phases, if at all?

•	What associations do the poem’s images have?  Will the stills and/or videos you choose for your translation depict the verbal images literally?  Figuratively?  Impressionistically?  Or will you use different styles in combination?  How will your selection and treatment of graphic elements reflect the essence of the poem? 

•	What words or concepts change over the course of the original poem?  How will you account for those changes in your translation?  If you were only going to incorporate a few words from the original text into your translation, what words would you choose? How would you use font, size, and color so that the visual appearance of the words helps to communicate your perception of the poem?  Or will you use your own words?  Or will you use no words at all?

•	What impact do specific sound features have on the poem?  How does sound contribute to your understanding of the poem?  How will your observations on sound affect your choice of music or other sounds?  Will the sounds you choose highlight your images by matching them or conflicting with them?  Will you use sounds to emphasize the transitions in the poem?  

•	Who will be your audience?  How will your knowledge of your audience affect your translation?

Create a PoemSquare

[This will be the work page, a child page off of “Multimedia”; title this page PoemSquare]
Instructions:  Select one of the four play modes: manual, slideshow, database, simulcast.  Select a tile, upload media files, and choose settings.  Add text, if you wish.  Preview.  Repeat the process for each tile you want to play in your PoemSquare.  Delete any tiles you will not use.  Click “FINISH.”  Play your creation from the PoemSquare Library.  For more detailed instructions, print out “PoemSquare Instructions” in “Resources.”
								

	A	B	C
Black A, white E, red I, green U, blue O - vowels,		
Some day I will open your silent pregnancies:
A, black belt, hairy with burst flies,
Bumbling and buzzing over stinking cruelties,

Pits of night; E, candour of sand pavilions,
High glacial spears, white kings, trembling Queen Anne's lace;
I, bloody spittle, laughter dribbling from a face
In wild denial or in anger, vermilions;				      
      L				    M				     N
U,…divine movement of viridian seas,
Peace of pastures animal-strewn, peace of calm lines
Drawn on foreheads worn with heavy alchemies;

O, supreme Trumpet, harsh with strange stridencies,
Silences traced in angels and astral designs:
O…Omega…the violet light of His Eyes!


	X	Y	Z








[This information will be in a handout that can be accessed under “Resources.”  I will create this document and have Rob upload it after you and I have finalized procedures.]
PoemSquare Instructions

Play modes
You may choose the play mode for each PoemSquare you create.  You might want to create a PoemSquare in several different play modes using the same interpretive perspective and media files.  Or you might want to approach each PoemSquare from a different interpretive perspective using a whole new set of images and sounds.  

MANUAL: Players click on any tile to play it individually.  They may play the tiles in any order and as many times as they like.
SLIDESHOW: Players click on the first tile to play the PoemSquare as a slideshow according to any sequence the mediator has determined.
DATABASE: Players click on the first tile to play a slideshow generated by random computer selections.
SIMULCAST:  Players click anywhere on the PoemSquare to play all tiles simultaneously.


Database
The Remaking Poetry database is a collaborative effort.  You and other mediators will create it by adding still image, moving image, and sound files to the database as you are working the experiments and creating your translations.  Media files may be copied from outside sources to the database following the “Fair Use Guidelines” (See “Resources”).  You also may create your own media files using (1) programs you access on your personal electronic devices, or (2) programs installed by the district on school electronic devices, or (3) open source software programs downloaded to your home or classroom computers.  All files added to the database must be G/PG-rated and must comply with the district’s Acceptable Use Policy.

All moving image and sound files should be 10 seconds or less in duration.

Compatible media files are: jpeg, png, and gif for still image; mov and mp4 for moving image; mp3 and wav for sound.

Open source software:  Audacity (sound editor), Blender (video editor/animation generator), GIMP 2 (photo editor)


Upload media files
To upload media files to a tile, click on the appropriate icon to browse the database, select the file, and open it.  In a single tile, you may upload a variety of configurations: a sound file only, a still image only, a combination of a sound file and still image, a moving image with sound, or a muted moving image plus a sound file.  

Text
You will be able to add/edit text in any tile.  However, use of text should be minimal.

Settings
You will be able to adjust features related to timing and volume.  If you are creating in the Slideshow mode, you will at this time determine the sequence in which the tile will play.  The letters remain fixed, but you can create desired effects by determining the play sequence, combined with leaving some spaces blank (see “Delete” below).

	Order of Play		Tile
             (choose 1-9)
	      			  A
			  	  B
			 	  C
			  	  L
			  	  M
			  	  N
			  	  X
			  	  Y
			  	  Z


Preview

After completing the uploads and adding text – if desired – preview the tile and make any modifications.  Be sure to save your work as you complete each tile so that you will be able to return to the PoemSquare if you are unable to complete it in one sitting.
 
 
Delete/Restore
Delete any tiles you will not use.  Click in the reload button to restore the tile if needed.  

Save to the PoemSquare Showcase
When you have finished your PoemSquare, click “FINISH.”  “FINISH” saves your creation to the PoemSquare Showcase where you and others may view it at any time.  Once your PoemSquare is in the showcase, you can no longer edit it.


